Guides 2.0 - Routes (#99)
hanami/guides: content/v2.0/router/advanced-usage.md

---
title: "Router: Advanced Usage"
order: 30
---

[Refer](https://github.com/hanami/router/blob/unstable/spec/integration/hanami/router/mount_spec.rb)

## Mounting an application

> In Hanami, you can mount any rack application in desired route. If we want to do it, you should use the `mount` keyword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Hanami, you can mount any rack application under desired route, in order to do it, you can use `mount` method:
```

  mount \->(\*) { \[200, {"Content-Length" => "4"}, \["proc"\]\] }, at: "/proc"
  mount \->(\*) { \[200, {"Content-Length" => "8"}, \["trailing"\]\] }, at: "/trailing/"
end
```

#### Mounting To A Path

```ruby
# /config/routes.rb

Hanami.application.routes do
  mount SinatraApp.new, at: "/sinatra"
end
```

All the HTTP requests starting with `/sinatra` will be routed to `SinatraApp`.

#### Mounting On A Subdomain

```ruby
# /config/routes.rb

Hanami.application.routes do
  mount Blog.new, host: "blog"
end
```

All the HTTP requests to `http://blog.example.com` will be routed to `Blog`.

<!--   TODO: Update this notice to meet 2.0 behaviour
<p class="notice">
  In development, you will NOT be able to access <code>http://blog.localhost:2300</code>,
  so you should specify a host when running the server:
  <code>bundle exec hanami server --host=lvh.me</code>.
  Then your application can be visited at <code>http://blog.lvh.me:2300</code>
</p>
-->

### RESTful Resources

Hanami has native [REST](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer) support.

At the routing level, there are two methods that can be used to declare them: `resources` and `resource`.

> The former is for plural resources, the latter for singular ones.

Reviewer: I feel like this sentence is not needed.

## RESTful Resources

### Default Routes

```ruby
# /config/routes.rb

Hanami.applicaton.routes do
  resources :books
end

```

It generates:

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Verb</th>
    <th>Path</th>
    <th>Action</th>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Named Route</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>GET</td>
    <td>/books</td>
    <td>Books::Index</td>
    <td>:index</td>
    <td>:books</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>GET</td>
    <td>/books/:id</td>
    <td>Books::Show</td>
    <td>:show</td>
    <td>:book</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>GET</td>
    <td>/books/new</td>
    <td>Books::New</td>
    <td>:new</td>
    <td>:new_book</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>POST</td>
    <td>/books</td>
    <td>Books::Create</td>
    <td>:create</td>
    <td>:books</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>GET</td>
    <td>/books/:id/edit</td>
    <td>Books::Edit</td>
    <td>:edit</td>
    <td>:edit_book</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>PATCH</td>
    <td>/books/:id</td>
    <td>Books::Update</td>
    <td>:update</td>
    <td>:book</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>DELETE</td>
    <td>/books/:id</td>
    <td>Books::Destroy</td>
    <td>:destroy</td>
    <td>:book</td>
  </tr>
</table>

> ### Remove Routes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Excluding RESTful routes
```

In case we don't need all the default routes we can use `:only` and pass one or more action names.
We can also exclude routes with `:except`.

```ruby
# /config/routes.rb

Hanami.applicaton.routes do
  resources :books, only: [:new, :create, :show]

  # equivalent to

  resources :books, except: [:index, :edit, :update, :destroy]
end
```

> ### Add Routes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Adding Routes
```

> Alongside with default routes we can specify extra routes for single (`member`) or multiple (`collection`) resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alongside the default routes we can specify extra routes for single (`member`) or multiple (`collection`) resources.
```
